---
author: "nao.deng"
title: "30 Days of AI in Testing Challenge: Day 10: Critically Analyse AI-Generated Tests"
date: "2024-03-11T10:06:44+08:00"
summary: "This blog post is day ten of the 30 Days of AI Testing Challenge,which calls for participants to critically analyze tests generated by artificial intelligence. The blog post may include the author's evaluation of AI-generated tests, covering aspects like accuracy, completeness, and coverage. By sharing the results of the critical analysis, readers will gain insight into the author's deep understanding and views on AI-generated testing. This series of events aims to provide testing professionals with practical cases to deepen their knowledge of AI test generation outcomes and to stimulate further discussions on improving the quality of AI-generated tests."
tags: ["Critically Analyse AI-Generated Tests","prompt engineering","Prompt"]
categories: ["Testing Challenge"]
series: ["30 Days of AI in Testing Challenge"]
ShowWordCount: true
draft: true
---

## Day 10: Critically Analyse AI-Generated Tests

Today is Day 10, and we will get critical about AI-generated tests.

Using AI to support testing by generating tests promises to increase the efficiency and speed of the testing process, improve test coverage and reduce human bias. In today’s task, we want to put this to the test by evaluating the quality and completeness of tests generated by AI. In particular, we want to understand what the tool does well and what it doesn’t do so well.

### Task Steps

1. **Choose your AI Test Generation Tool**: This could be a Test Generation Tool identified in a previous task, or you could continue experimenting with test generation using Large Language Models…or a combination of both.

2. **Generate Scenarios**: Use the tool to explore one (or more) of the following topics - or create your own topic.

   a. Compare tests generated for simple features (such as registering for an event on a platform such as MoT) with those that might require more domain knowledge (such as calculating shipping on an e-commerce site).

   b. Compare test generation for functional scenarios versus other attributes such as accessibility, performance or security.

   c. Evaluate how well the tool applies Test Design Techniques such as Boundary Value Analysis, Combinatorial Testing or Path Testing.

   d. Experiment with how the level of detail provided to the tool impacts the quality of the generated tests.

   e. Contrast the tests generated for UI-based scenarios versus API-level scenarios.

3. **Review the scenarios**: critically examine the scenarios generated and compare them to those that you, as a tester, might have created:

   a. What did the tool do well?

   b. What did the tool not do so well with?

   c. How straightforward was it to express the inputs to generate the tests?

   d. Are the generated tests correct and ready to use?

   e. How complete do you think the tests are? What does the tool miss?

4. **Share your findings**: Let the community know about your findings by replying to this post.

Consider sharing:

a. How do the AI-generated tests differ from tests you would have created?

b. Your perspective on how AI-generated tests benefit the testing process.

c. What do you see as the limitations of the tool you evaluated?

### Why Take Part

- **Know the limitations**: It’s easy to become swayed by marketing hype about AI - this task helps you develop the skills to critically evaluate the use of AI in Testing and determine when it adds value and when it might not.

### Task Link

<https://club.ministryoftesting.com/t/day-10-critically-analyse-ai-generated-tests/74987>

## My Day 10 Task

## About Event

The "30 Days of AI in Testing Challenge" is an initiative by the Ministry of Testing community. The last time I came across this community was during their "30 Days of Agile Testing" event.

Community Website: <https://www.ministryoftesting.com>

Event Link: <https://www.ministryoftesting.com/events/30-days-of-ai-in-testing>

**Challenges**:

- [Day 1: Introduce yourself and your interest in AI](https://naodeng.com.cn/posts/event/30-days-of-ai-in-testing-day-1-introduce-yourself-and-your-interest-in-ai/)
- [Day 2: Read an introductory article on AI in testing and share it](https://naodeng.com.cn/posts/event/30-days-of-ai-in-testing-day-2-read-an-introductory-article-on-ai-in-testing-and-share-it/)
- [Day 3: List ways in which AI is used in testing](https://naodeng.com.cn/posts/event/30-days-of-ai-in-testing-day-3-list-ways-in-which-ai-is-used-in-testing/)
- [Day 4: Watch the AMA on Artificial Intelligence in Testing and share your key takeaway](https://naodeng.com.cn/posts/event/30-days-of-ai-in-testing-day-4-watch-the-ama-on-artificial-intelligence-in-testing-and-share-your-key-takeaway/)
- [Day 5:Identify a case study on AI in testing and share your findings](https://naodeng.com.cn/posts/event/30-days-of-ai-in-testing-day-5-identify-a-case-study-on-ai-in-testing-and-share-your-findings/)
- [Day 6:Explore and share insights on AI testing tools](https://naodeng.com.cn/posts/event/30-days-of-ai-in-testing-day-6-explore-and-share-insights-on-ai-testing-tools/)
- [Day 7: Research and share prompt engineering techniques](https://naodeng.com.cn/posts/event/30-days-of-ai-in-testing-day-7-research-and-share-prompt-engineering-techniques/)
- [Day 8: Craft a detailed prompt to support test activities](https://naodeng.com.cn/posts/event/30-days-of-ai-in-testing-day-8-craft-a-detailed-prompt-to-support-test-activities/)
- [Day 9: Evaluate prompt quality and try to improve it](https://naodeng.com.cn/posts/event/30-days-of-ai-in-testing-day-9-evaluate-prompt-quality-and-try-to-improve-it/)
